[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> No one has it figured out.
And the belief and the
myth and the delusion
that somebody else
has it figured out
is actually what
keeps us suffering.
I haven't met anyone, of
the true spiritual teachers
I've met, who have said
they have it figured out.
They say, oh my god, I don't
have it figured out at all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I don't believe I'll reach a
place where I feel, oh, I'm
enough, in all areas.
Enough as a partner.
In my work, of course, am
I enough as a provider,
a caregiver?
And this is no different
than everybody else I meet.
It's intriguing to me to
catch myself and notice
where it comes up in those
really insidious ways
that I'm not enough.
And I think that's the
struggle I always have.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Growing up a Jewish gay man in
McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which
is a steel town, not
knowing how to throw
a football or a
baseball and not caring,
I was called all
kinds of things.
And then, plus, I was a dancer,
and I was in the musicals.
Back then, I could not fathom
that I could get married.
I couldn't fathom that I
could be loved, could love.
I didn't think I
could have cats.
That wasn't a possibility.
And I say this I think with
a hundred percent conviction,
if you said being
gay wasn't enough--
you're gay, so
you're not enough--
back then, I believed it.
So I wasn't enough.
All of us who don't
feel enough believe
there is some way
it's supposed to be
and that we're telling ourselves
we're not living up to it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think part of
the reason people
don't feel enough
is we get messages
that you're only enough
if you look like this,
do this, look like this,
not physical appearance,
but your life looks
a certain way.
And so we're chasing that.
It's freeing to realize
no one has it figured out.
Stop comparing
yourself to everybody.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What confuses me about people
is when they say, well,
when will I get this right?
When will I be done with this?
And I say, when you're dead.
I can't speak to after that.
Maybe something goes on after.
But when you're dead.
And so I keep
thinking, I'm going
to be working on this for the
rest of my life, and that's OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm a person who asks
myself every day,
how can I be of service?
How can I be more compassionate?
How can I be more at peace,
at ease with whatever happens?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I keep thinking of
it all as a practice.
And I don't think
our existence is
any different than an artist,
a gymnast, an athlete.
They may be tired, but they go
back on the mat the next day
and practice again.
They don't say, oh, I got it.
I'm perfect now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I also don't think of
practice as lack of joy.
The analogy I
often say to myself
is it's like learning to drive.
That was difficult for me.
I didn't want to do it.
But, yes, I did.
I did.
I was scared.
I was gripping the wheel.
But I'm like, I want freedom.
So that's the same analogy.
It's like, I want
to be at peace.
I'm going to do that again.
I want to practice
doing that again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every one of us can practice
being kinder and gentler
to ourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm still puzzled
by people who think
they're never going to die.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You're going to die.
And that's exciting
because then you
can infuse this moment, when
you remember, with meaning.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My daily mantra is a
question to myself of,
how do you want to
be in this moment?
And that's, I think,
that North Star for me
that I cling to to help
me navigate my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Whatever you feel connected
with, you're engaging,
you're leaning into it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For me, that's making tea,
having Murphy sit on my lap.
They're all helping me
get out of rumination
and into the moment.
Because in the moment, I
feel the weight of this cat.
I feel their purring.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
They're grounding
experiences about saying,
I'm here right now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The way I think of peace is
not devoid of pain or dislike
or displeasure.
It's that there's no
fight, no struggle.
I think of it like if
two warring nations--
I can think of
several right now--
were to have a peace
agreement, the people might not
like each other, they
might still criticize,
but they don't throw rocks
or bombs at each other.
And I don't think
it's hyperbole to say,
I think that we drop bombs
on ourselves all day long
and twist ourselves into
knots trying to be enough.
For me, peace is just being
able to breathe with ease
and embrace the behaviors
that I would like to change,
embrace the situation that
is not necessarily the one
I would like.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I often say to myself in
my meditations every day,
may I be safe, may I be
at peace and at ease.
May I be healthy,
not just physically,
mentally, emotionally,
spiritually.
And then the phrase
that I have changed,
tweaked it a little
bit, is, and may
I go gently knowing my goodness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Knowing our goodness goes
back to being enough.
For me, I'm getting
to know my goodness.
And when I say that, since
I believe it's a process,
I can be at peace with
that most of the time.